As Nigerians brace-up for Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Police have put in place a robust security arrangement. The crime prevention strategies would ensure crime-free Christmas and New Year celebrations nationwide. Accordingly, conventional policemen and the personnel of the specialised units of the Force comprising the Police Mobile Force and Counter Terrorism Unit have been deployed. Also involved in the security arrangement are the Special Protection Unit, Federal Highway Patrol, Explosive Ordinance Department, the armament unit, Sniffer dogs section, the Marine Police and Police Air wing. They have been deployed to provide effective security and protection of life and property nationwide during the festivities. “Visible police presence is already emplaced on the Highways and Major roads across the country, Mr. Don Awunah, Force Public Relations Officer, said on Saturday in a statement. He said deployment of the police patrol teams and surveillance squads would cover places of worship, other public places, venue of recreation and celebrations throughout the period of the festivities. “Motorists, commuters and other road users are enjoined to cooperate with Police detachments and personnel deployed on the highways and major roads across the country. “The Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim K. Idris, has directed the Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police in charge of Zonal and State commands to personally be on ground to supervise the implementation of the Security arrangement.’’ The Police officers and men are under strict instructions to be very polite and civil but firm in the discharge of their duty during the period, he said. “They are to observe and respect the diversity and peculiarity of the people, display courage, show compassion and demonstrate professionalism in their interaction and engagement with the citizenry throughout the period of the celebration.
“The Commissioners of Police in the thirty six (36) states and the FCT have further been directed to intensify on the on-going raids of identified criminal hideouts and flash points in their jurisdictions. “Adequate security coverage and protection will be given to government installations and infrastructure, with twenty four hours surveillance and patrol of motor parks, points of departure and entrance, shopping malls, business plaza and other private and public facilities in all states of the country and the FCT.’’ The police reiterated that the ban on use of fire work, ‘banger’, and knockout was still in force. He advised parents and guardians to prevail on their children and wards to desist from these acts that are capable of causing tension, fear and apprehension in their neighbourhood.